# Why blockchain?

The increasing volume surrounding blockchain is due to its promise
of removing barriers associated with legacy business networks, which are
relatively expensive, inefficient, and vulnerable. Rising costs of network
maintenance, the persistence of data and process bottlenecks, and increases in
security breaches have all contributed to the call to accelerate an alternative
model that delivers on the full promise of the internet. Blockchain is the
technology that is bringing that potential to fruition.

**Faster payment settlement:** Anyone with a credit card knows that it takes
several days for a payment to be posted to their account. This delay in
transaction settlement between banks creates an opportunity cost for the
transacting parties. The consumer or purchaser has to wait days for access to
their available credit, and the card issuer is delayed in gaining access to the
transferred funds. This period of time, when neither party can use an asset
of value, affects many types of transactions, including stock market sell
orders, credit applications and maintaining provenance of goods.

Centralized network bottlenecks and the overhead of data synchronization across
organizations are main sources of transaction settlement delay and the
associated opportunity costs. Blockchain removes these obstacles by flattening
the hierarchy. Each node on a blockchain network maintains the same immutable
record of transactions, greatly reducing data processing overhead. If each
grain of sand in an hourglass is a transaction, then the narrow neck through
which they pass is the centralized network. Blockchain widens the neck of the
hourglass, allowing transactions to flow through to settlement much more freely.

**More efficient dispute resolution:** Under the current model of transaction
dispute resolution, third parties are granted access to network data in order
to trace the past actions of the transacting parties. This process is
expensive for banks and consumers, and can tie up funds for extended periods of
time. Blockchain greatly reduces dispute resolution time and cost, because the
immutable ledger is readily available to authorized participants. This
decentralized, but controlled, access to transaction histories enables
transacting parties, auditors and regulators to efficiently locate
discrepancies and issue correcting transactions. All transactions, including
disputed ones, are maintained on the immutable ledger. Both honest mistakes and
fraudulent actions are thereby detected and resolved expediently, without
using expensive and time-consuming intermediaries.

The common ownership of a blockchain network, its dynamic control of network
membership and its decentralized, shared data ledger assure members that when
transaction discrepancies do arise, they are resolved accurately, efficiently
and confidentially by authorized participants.

**Stronger barrier against data corruption**: Incidents of hacking, where an
unauthorized, anonymous user gains access to a restricted network, are
increasing throughout the world in frequency and severity. Centralized
networks, which offer single points of intrusion, are demonstrably vulnerable.
Even innocently aberrant or incorrect information can wreak havoc on a network,
which depends on data consistency and integrity for its survival. Blockchain is
particularly adept at preventing corrupt data from infiltrating the ledger,
regardless of its source and cause, through the continual sharing and
verification of data by multiple network members.

The ledger is the shared, single source of truth for the entire history of
transactions on a blockchain network. For a transaction to be written to the
ledger, network members must grant their consent, by proxy of formalized
network policies and protocols. The methods employed to grant this consent vary
by network, and depend on factors such as the degree of fault tolerance that
network members require. A Byzantine fault-tolerant network, for example,
protects nodes from being corrupted by divergent messages. Through its
distributed and decentralized methods of ledger maintenance, blockchain
effectively and efficiently weeds out any corrupt data to provide networks with
data integrity and reliability.
